Docs: fp16 page (#404)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/optimization/fp16.mdx

specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Memory and speed

We present some techniques and ideas to optimize 🤗 Diffusers _inference_ for memory or speed.

## CUDA `autocast`

> If you use a CUDA GPU, you can take advantage of `torch.autocast` to perform much faster inference. All you need to do is put your inference call inside an `autocast` context manager. The following example shows how to do it using Stable Diffusion text-to-image generation as an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a CUDA GPU, you can take advantage of `torch.autocast` to perform inference roughly twice as fast at the cost of slightly lower precision. All you need to do is put your inference call inside an `autocast` context manager. The following example shows how to do it using Stable Diffusion text-to-image generation as an example:
```

```Python
from torch import autocast
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline

pipe = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained("CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4", use_auth_token=True)
pipe = pipe.to("cuda")

prompt = "a photo of an astronaut riding a horse on mars"
with autocast("cuda"):
    image = pipe(prompt).images[0]  
```

## Half precision weights

> In order to save a big chunk of GPU memory, you can load the model weights in half precision. This involves loading the float16 version of the weights, which was saved to a branch named `fp16`, and telling PyTorch to use the `float16` type when loading them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To save more GPU memory, you can load the model weights directly in half precision. This involves loading the float16 version of the weights, which was saved to a branch named `fp16`, and telling PyTorch to use the `float16` type when loading them:
```

```Python
pipe = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(
    "CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4",
    revision="fp16",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    use_auth_token=True
)
```

## Sliced attention for additional memory savings

> For even additional memory savings, you can use a sliced version of attention that performs the computation in steps instead of all at once. You only need to invoke `enable_attention_slicing()` in your pipeline before inference, like here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For even additional memory savings, you can use a sliced version of attention that performs the computation in steps instead of all at once. 
**Note**: Attention slicing is useful even if a batch size of just 1 is used - as long as the model uses more than one attention head. If there is more than one attention head the *QK^T* attention matrix can be computed sequentially for each head which can save a significant amount of memory.
To perform the attention computation sequentially over each head, you only need to invoke `enable_attention_slicing()` in your pipeline before inference, like here:
```

Author: Awesome, thanks!
